---
title: "Coding Toolbox"
date: 2020-02-19
---

# Editor
## Visual Studio Code 

Extensions:
- Remote Development (SSH): this is game changer, not only do you get the text editor, you also get terminal shells and file explorer. No more juggling between Putty/MobaTerm, WinSCP/Samba.
Under the hood this spawns a server on the host. One may face installation issues on older Unix OS, otherwise it's seamless. Note the remote server binary is not open source. 
- Python Interactive: another game changer, this makes it almost seamless developing in sandbox mode and packaging into proper Python scripts/modules. 
I no longer use Jupyter Notebook/Lab with this (I connect to a Jupyter kernel instead). Basically you can develop in a hybrid mode, in which it's a Python script but has the concept of cells. 
Cells are delimited with #%% , pressing Shift+Enter on a cell would automatically spawn the Jupyter interactive window/kernel connection. 
- Vim: of course :)

Tips:
- In a terminal shell, to open a file in the IDE use "code <file>". 'code' is aliased to an agent that forwards the file to current window.

Useful Keybindings:

In the past I wouldn't have guessed Microsoft would create an open-source text editor, times have changed :)

# Dashboard
## Streamlit
This is an amazing tool, I would recommend for fast deployment. Each widget element is just one line of Python code.
Only limitation is that it's not that flexible and hesitates on allowing custom HTML/JS code (for security). 
To address customization they will likely enable plugins soon.

## Dash by Plotly
Allows creating dashboards with pure Python and basic HTML structure.
Uses React.js for its widgets and allows custom HTML/CSS tweaks.

# ML / Data Science 
## XGBoost, Scikit-Learn
It's wonderful that XGBoost can directly work with Pandas Dataframes. De facto libray for gradient boosting in Python.

# Docker
I've used Docker for AMD ROCM, Jekyll server (Github Pages), ML workspace.
Favorites:
- https://github.com/ml-tooling/ml-workspace
- https://github.com/EthicalML/awesome-production-machine-learning
- https://github.com/NVAITC/ai-lab